Update volume encryption doc (#775)
longhorn/website: content/docs/1.6.0/advanced-resources/security/volume-encryption.md

weight: 2
---

> A volume in `Filesystem` or `Block` mode is supported to be encrypted by utilizing the Linux kernel module `dm_crypt` via `cryptsetup`. Further we use the Kubernetes secret mechanism for key storage, which can be further encrypted and guarded via appropriate permissions. An encrypted volume results in your data being encrypted while in transit as well as at rest, this also means that any backups taken from that volume are also encrypted.

Reviewer: I reorganized and reworded the paragraph. Please check if the technical details are correct.

Longhorn supports volume encryption at the storage class level, which means that volumes in both `Filesystem` and `Block` mode can be encrypted while in transit and at rest. Moreover, backups taken from encrypted volumes are also encrypted. This is all accomplished through the Linux kernel module `dm_crypt`, the command-line utility `cryptsetup`, and Kubernetes Secrets. `dm_crypt` and `cryptsetup` handle the creation and management of encrypted devices, while Secrets (and related permissions) facilitate secure storage of encryption keys.

> A volume in `Filesystem` or `Block` mode is supported to be encrypted by utilizing the Linux kernel module `dm_crypt` via `cryptsetup`. Further we use the Kubernetes secret mechanism for key storage, which can be further encrypted and guarded via appropriate permissions. An encrypted volume results in your data being encrypted while in transit as well as at rest, this also means that any backups taken from that volume are also encrypted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Longhorn supports volume encryption at the storage class level, which means that volumes in both Filesystem and Block mode can be encrypted while in transit and at rest. Moreover, backups taken from encrypted volumes are also encrypted. This is all accomplished through the Linux kernel module dm_crypt, the command-line utility cryptsetup, and Kubernetes Secrets. dm_crypt and cryptsetup handle the creation and management of encrypted devices, while Secrets (and related permissions) facilitate secure storage of encryption keys.
```

Longhorn supports offline [expansion](../../../volumes-and-nodes/expansion) for encrypted volumes.

# History

> - Support Encryption for Volume in Filesystem Mode since v1.2.0 [#1859](https://github.com/longhorn/longhorn/issues/1859)

Reviewer: Please use the following wording:

Encryption of volumes in Filesystem mode available starting v1.2.0

> - Support Encryption for Volume in Filesystem Mode since v1.2.0 [#1859](https://github.com/longhorn/longhorn/issues/1859)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Encryption of volumes in `Filesystem` mode available starting v1.2.0
```

> - Support Encryption for Volume in Block Mode since v1.6.0 [#4883](https://github.com/longhorn/longhorn/issues/4883)

Reviewer: Please use the following wording:

- Encryption of volumes in 'Block' mode available starting v1.6.0

> - Support Encryption for Volume in Block Mode since v1.6.0 [#4883](https://github.com/longhorn/longhorn/issues/4883)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Encryption of volumes in `Block` mode available starting v1.6.0
```

Longhorn supports offline [expansion](../../../volumes-and-nodes/expansion) for encrypted volumes.

# History
- Encryption of volumes in `Filesystem` mode available starting v1.2.0 ([#1859](https://github.com/longhorn/longhorn/issues/1859))

> - Support Encryption for Volume in Block Mode since v1.6.0 ([#4883](https://github.com/longhorn/longhorn/issues/4883))

Author: Thank you.
